# Clarifications!

<p><strong><em>Clarifications:</em></strong></p>

<ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>On December 31, 2022, the API certification criterion in § 170.315(g)(10) replaces the “application access—data category request” certification criterion (§ 170.315(g)(8)).</li>
	<li>Health IT Modules are not required to support patient-facing API-enabled “read” services for multiple patients for the purposes of this certification criterion.</li>
	<li>The clinical note text included in any of the notes described in the “Clinical Notes Guidance” section of the US Core IG adopted in § 170.215(a)(2) must be represented in a “plain text” form, and it would be unacceptable for the note text to be converted to another file or format (e.g., .docx, PDF) when it is provided as part of an API response. The intent of this policy is to prohibit Health IT Modules from converting clinical notes from a “machine readable” format to a non-“machine readable” format (e.g., PDF). Clinical note text that originates from outside Health IT Modules should be exchanged using its original format. Additionally, “plain text” does not necessarily mean the FHIR “contentType” “text/plain.”</li>
	<li>The US Core IG Profile “StructureDefinition-us-core-patient” element “name.suffix” is required for testing and certification in the ONC Certification Program to meet the USCDI requirement to support the “Patient Demographics” Data Class: “Suffix” Data Element.</li>
	<li>Either the US Core IG Profile “StructureDefinition-us-core-patient” element “name.period” or “name.use” is required for testing and certification in the ONC Certification Program to meet the USCDI requirement to support the “Patient Demographics” Data Class: “Previous Name” Data Element.</li>
	<li>A Health IT Module must support at least one Choice or Reference for US Core IG “must support” elements with multiple Choices or References, respectively. </li>
	<li>A Health IT Module must be conformant to the US Core IG for all Choices and References included in its standardized API, and cannot misrepresent Choices via the standardized API (e.g. a Health IT Module cannot transform “integer” values to “string” values). </li>
	<li>A health IT developer must document which US Core IG Choices and References are supported by their Health IT Module via public technical documentation to meet the requirements at § 170.315(g)(10)(viii) and the transparency conditions at § 170.404(a)(2). </li>
	<li>Information originating from the (g)(10)-certified Health IT Module must conform to the requirements included in the criterion, but legacy information and information from outside systems is not required to be mapped to the United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) “Applicable Standards” and the US Core IG terminologies and value sets. However, health IT developers are encouraged to exceed the minimum requirements described in § 170.315(g)(10) to support the mapping of legacy information to the terminologies and value sets included in the USCDI and US Core IG where possible.</li>
</ul>