# API Resource Guide

## How to use this resource guide

This informative document supplements other public documentation available to help health IT developers certify to the API criteria in the ONC Health IT Certification Program and meet the requirements under the API Conditions and Maintenance of Certification. At the highest level, this document mirrors the organization of paragraphs in the Code of Federal Regulations, including headers for “§ 170.315(g)(10) Standardized API Certification Criterion” (the FHIR-based standardized API), “§ 170.404 Conditions and Maintenance of Certification” (the broader API behavior requirements), and sub-paragraphs. It also contains standalone sections for topics that generate a lot of questions, like “Real World Testing of APIs” and “Standards Version Advancement Process and APIs.” Efforts have been made to make this document easily navigable, searchable, and consumable. If you have recommendations to improve this document, please submit an inquiry to the Health IT Feedback and Inquiry Portal or submit an issue on GitHub.

This document is intended to provide clarifications to assist developers to implement applicable provisions contained in 45 CFR part 170. In developing and implementing APIs and other health IT, developers should remain mindful of the information blocking privisions of the ONC Cures Act Final Rule contained in 45 CFR part 171. This document does not supersede existing statutory or regulatory requirements. The use of the term “Health IT Module(s)” or “certified Health IT Module(s)” in this document refers to Health IT Modules certified through the ONC Health IT Certification Program.

[This paragraph is repetitive] This document encompasses clarifications from the § 170.315(g)(10) Certification Companion Guide (CCG) and § 170.404 CCG. Within each regulation paragraph, there is a section titled “Clarifications Included in [name of CCG],” which includes clarifications from the respective CCG, and “Additional Clarifications to the [name of CCG],” which includes additional clarifications not included in the respective CCG. This documentation accompanies the Certification Companion Guide (CCG) and Test Procedure for the Standardized API for patient and population services certification criterion finalized at § 170.315(g)(10) and the CCG for API Conditions and Maintenance of Certification requirements finalized at § 170.404.

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"